Alright, in this video I wanna
introduce you to Spring MockMVC test.
Now this is a feature that was added to
Spring around Version 3.2 I
think and it gives us capability to test
Spring MVC controllers and actually unit
test them. And it's gonna bring in a
mock servlet context. So controllers
can be tricky little beasts to test when
you're looking at testing things
like response codes and media types and
different things like that and a lot of
times to test like request path mapping
and things like that. In the older days
you'd have to bring up an entire web
server to get this tested. Now we have
the capability to do a mock web server
and actually we are not even using a mock
web server. We're going through a mock
Dispatcher Servlet and the Spring
team has given us these tools that we
can utilize it and our tests around the
controllers now become very very
lightweight. And I see a lot of people
testing those and bringing up the Spring
Context when you really don't need to.
And I'm gonna show you how to use the
Spring MockMVC in a standalone setup.
So I'm in IntelliJ and let's go ahead and add
a new test method. I'm doing a command N
test method and we're gonna do a testMockMVC and the first thing we wanna
do is create a MockMVC and alt+enter. We'll get that imported. And we can use a
builder and we want that MockMvcBuilders. Now you have two options here,
standaloneSetup or web context setup. There's a lot
of testing, you'll see a lot of examples
using the webAppContextSetup and
that's gonna bring up a Spring
Context and our tests will no longer be
a unit test. So but standalone tests, we
can do and keep our tests running nice
and fast. And what it's gonna ask for
is a controller or a set of controllers
and we have our controller that's being
configured already for us and this is a
builder. So we wanna say build(). So this
is running to build a pattern. So now we
have our MockMvc and it's
fluent API. So what I wanna
do is mockMvc.perform(), I wanna
say get and the static imports are
little tricky. And I just type mock to
narrow down the list. It seems like
there's a thousand static get methods
and the one we want is the MockMvcRequestBuilders. So we're gonna do a
static import for that, bring that in and
we wanna say get from the root context.
Now, we can say andExpect and this is
another static import that we want.
I'm gonna import that and we want the mockMvc
status and that's gonna assert that
we get back a 200 status from our
controller, which is exactly what we want.
andExpect, we have a view. Again, there's
another static import. We're gonna say
import that, name("index"). So now let's
go ahead and run this and we see that
our test is running. I'll double check
make sure that everything runs. We're on
the whole class here but both our tests. Okay so you can see how quick this is
running and so there's still very much a
unit test. So we are using basically a
mock servlet context created by the
guys at the Spring team and this gives
us a lot of capabilities. And that
this is the way I prefer to test Spring
MVC controllers and it keeps your test
very light and you don't need to
be bringing up the world in the
Spring context. So this is just a great
way to be doing things. And going forward
in the course, we are gonna be using
this quite a bit more. I'm just showing
you, this just meant to be an
introduction to MockMvc. There's a lot more capabilities here and
we will definitely be getting into those
capabilities going further or forward in
the course.